**Package name: [Logstash v8.6.2]**

**Currency Checklist:**

Tasks | Details 
-- | --
Check the Latest stable version | **v8.7.0 https://www.elastic.co/downloads/logstash-oss**
Provide list of supported distros mentioned by community. Share link for reference.<br><br>Add support for following   Distros:<br>  RHEL 7.8, RHEL 7.9, RHEL 8.4, RHEL 8.6, RHEL 8.7, RHEL 9.0, RHEL 9.1, SLES12 SP5, SLES15 SP4, Ubuntu 18.04(LTS), Ubuntu 20.04(LTS), Ubuntu 22.04(LTS),  Ubuntu 22.10<br> Supported distro list should match   what community claims. If any community claimed distro is not worked on, give   appropriate reasons.<br><br> (Note: Format community claim statement in italics if applicable) |  **https://www.elastic.co/support/matrix<br><br>Supported distors are <br><br><ul><li>RHEL 7.x, 8.x, 9.x</li><br> <li>Ubuntu (18.04, 20.04, 22.04) </li> <br><li>SLES 12 sp5, SLES 15 sp4</li> </ul>(Ubuntu 22.10 is not supported ) <br><br>Verified on the  Ubuntu 18.04(LTS), Ubuntu 20.04(LTS), Ubuntu 22.04(LTS), RHEL 7.8, RHEL 7.9, RHEL 8.4, RHEL 8.6, RHEL 8.7, RHEL 9.0, RHEL 9.1, SLES12 SP5, SLES15 SP3, SLES15 SP4 distros**
Provide list of supported runtimes mentioned by community. Share link for reference. <br> (Note: Format community claim statement in italics if applicable) <br> Provide list of verified runtimes as mentioned by community. <br>Eg: Go/Java/Gcc etc <br>(Refer Java guidelines below, for more info)  <br>If any community claimed runtimes are not worked on, give   appropriate reasons.  |**Support runtimes mentioned by community OpenJDK/AdoptOpenJDK 11, OpenJDK/Temurin 17, OpenJDK/Temurin 18: https://www.elastic.co/support/matrix#matrix_jvm** 
Package   available in distribution? If yes, list distos along with versions available |  **No**
Languages used – List all the languages used in Source. <br><br>Update the Package Status excel sheet <br>https://ibm.ent.box.com/file/910316005555 |  **<ul> <li>Java - 48.3%</li> <li>Ruby - 47.2%</li>  <li>Shell - 1.5%</li>  <li>HTML - 1.2%</li>  <li>Python - 0.3%</li>  <li>CSS - 0.3%</li>  <li>Other - 1.2%</li></ul>**
CI/CD info: <br> Community using any CI/CD tool? Yes/No<br>If yes, answer questions in the next column for each CI/CD tools <br> |  **Yes , jenkins https://logstash-ci.elastic.co/**   <br>1. Is Z part of the CI? **&nbsp;No**<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;If yes, <br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;1.1. working properly & build succ? **Na**<br> 2.  List archs being built **&nbsp;amd64, aarch64**<br>3. Is the package cross compiled? **&nbsp;No**<br>4. Is this CI responsible for releasing any build artifact (e.g., binary/docker image/operator)  **&nbsp;No**<br>5. Is this CI for build only?**&nbsp;No** <br>6. Is testing part of the CI (What kind of testing. E.g. unit test, integration test) **&nbsp; yes, unit and integration testing**<br>7.   Is CI part of PR checks or PR merge commits? **&nbsp;yes**<br> 8. If Z is not already part of CI, then look for chances to add Z support, share details like how to enable, etc, discussion is needed before we decide what to do. **Community has no plans to ass the CI for s390x <br>https://github.ibm.com/loz/opensource-porting-s390x/issues/4723<br>Also on https://github.ibm.com/loz/opensource-porting-s390x/issues/4723 it is mentioned that we will not try any enablement with the elastic community as of now so the issue is closed**
Binary info:<br>Are Binaries (in any format) available? If yes, provide details:  |**Yes**  1.	List all architectures (including no-arch/no-mention) for which binaries are available and share link to download.<br>**Binaries are available for amd64, aarch64**<br>**https://www.elastic.co/downloads/past-releases/logstash-oss-8-6-2**<br>2. Provide details on how it is built e.g. cross vs native <br>**Native**<br>**The Logstash jars are platform-independent and can run on any platform with Java support however the binary tarball for each architecture may differ because it includes a JDK specific to that architecture**<br>3.	Tools being used to create binary &nbsp;**rake,&nbsp;ruby**<br>4.	CI responsible for releasing the binary&nbsp;&nbsp;**info not found**<br>5.	Is emulator used?**info not found**<br>6.	Verify/test binaries and share results.**Verified using logstash -V as mentioned in the BI logs are attached below**<br>7.	If Binary is not available for Z then look for chances to add Z support, share details like how to enable, etc, discussion is needed before we decide what to do.**Community has no plans to add support for s390x<br>https://github.ibm.com/loz/opensource-porting-s390x/issues/4723<br>Also on https://github.ibm.com/loz/opensource-porting-s390x/issues/4723 it is mentioned that we will not try any enablement with the elastic community as of now so the issue is closed**
Docker Image info:<br> Dockerfile/images available externally for Intel?If Yes, provide details: |  1.	Intel Dockerfile link: <br>**https://github.com/elastic/dockerfiles/blob/v8.6.2/logstash/Dockerfile**<br>2. s390x Dockerfile link (Maintained by us / Community):**&nbsp;maintained by us**<br>**https://github.com/linux-on-ibm-z/dockerfile-examples/blob/master/Logstash/Dockerfile**<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;2.1 If maintained by us,      Dockerfile should be provided and should as close to Intel as possible. Provide difference with Intel if any and why<br><ul><li>**The Intel Dockerfile sets various metadata labels in comparision to the dockerfile maintained by us**</li><li>**The Intel Dockerfile uses ubuntu:20.04 as the base image, whereas the Dockerfile maintained by us uses s390x/ubuntu:20.04 base image**</li></ul> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;2.2	If maintained by us,      mention Intel and s390x docker image sizes. Provide difference with Intel if any and why <br>**size of s390x docker image is 656 mb and size of intel docker image is 732 mb**<br>3.	Docker image link (for s390x and other platforms like Intel, amd, ppc64 etc): <br>(Search as many keywords as u can think of – e.g.  dockerhub, google, gcloud , Rhel registry etc)<br><ul><li>**https://hub.docker.com/_/logstash/tags?page=1&name=8.6.2 <br>(arm64, amd64)**</li> <li>**https://hub.docker.com/r/ibmcom/logstash-s390x/tags?page=1 s390x**</li><li>**https://hub.docker.com/r/ibmcom/logstash-ppc64le/tags (ppc64le)**</li></ul>4.	Mention the CI responsible for building   and publishing docker image.<br>**Github actions https://github.com/elastic/dockerfiles/actions/workflows/logstash.yml**<br>5.	Is emulator used?&nbsp;**No info found**<br>6.	Mention tools used to build the image.**&nbsp;Docker**<br>7.	If docker image is not available for Z then look for chances to add Z support, share details like how to enable, etc, discussion is needed before we decide what to do.<br>**Community has no plans to add image support for s390x<br>https://github.ibm.com/loz/opensource-porting-s390x/issues/4723<br>Also on https://github.ibm.com/loz/opensource-porting-s390x/issues/4723 it is mentioned that we will not try any enablement with the elastic community as of now so the issue is closed**
Operator info:<br> Are Operators available?   If yes, provide details:| 1. Which arch and where to find it (link should be provided).  **&nbsp;&nbsp;NA**<br>2.   Generated from their CI/CD? **&nbsp;&nbsp;NA** <br>**No operators info found**
PR info:<br> Are there any code changes needed for this release?If Yes, If yes, list them all in the next column and answer question for each. | 1.	Should the code changes be PRed? If yes provide PR link. If Not PRed, provide reasons on why not.**&nbsp;&nbsp;NA** <br> 2.	Check if there are existing open PR’s and if it's still valid for this release **&nbsp;&nbsp;NA**<br>**No code changes**
Issues info:| <br>1. Any issue created with community (GitHub, JIRA, Bugzilla etc)?If Yes, provide issue link.<br>**No**<br>2.	Check if there are existing open issues and if it's still valid for this release. For any outstanding issue provide latest updates and issue table should be updated accordingly. <br>**No issues**</br>
Internal Deliverables: | 1.	Created Test reports (Table format)?Use test result template<br>**NA**<br>2.	Is Zenhub issue updated with all UpToDate info including informal community communications <br>**Yes** <br>3.	List down detailed Steps followed to verify the package. Give reference link as well. Also Attach a proof of verification on the ZenHub issue <br>**Verified using logstash -V as mentioned in the BI**
External Deliverables: | 1.	Build Instructions <br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;1.1	Is BI updated?**&nbsp;Yes**<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;1.2	List all the changes done with respect to published version<ul><li> **updated version to 8.6.2** </li></ul><br>2.	Scripts <br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;2.1	Is Script updated?**&nbsp;Yes**<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;2.2	List all the changes done with respect to published version<ul><li> **updated version to 8.6.2** </li></ul><br>3.	Dockerfile  <br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;3.1	Is Dockerfile updated?**&nbsp;Yes**<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;3.2	List all the changes done with respect to published version <ul><li> **updated version to 8.6.2** </li></ul>
External table changes required? Add details about external table changes required (If any) (Check links, distro etc.) | **No**
Actual efforts (In   hours) |  **10 hours**
Calendar   Time (actual Start and End Date in yyyy/mm/dd) |  **2023/03/29 - 2023/04/07**

* Java Variants on Z: 
  * **Java 8 (LTS)**: OpenJDK8, IBM Semeru Runtime Version 8.
  * **Java 11 (LTS)**: OpenJDK11, Eclipse Adoptium Temurin Runtime Version 11, [IBM Semeru Runtime Version 11 -> Not recommended for all packages. Discuss with the lead before trying out this variant].
  * **Java 17 (LTS)**: OpenJDK17, Eclipse Adoptium Temurin Runtime Version 17, [IBM Semeru Runtime Version 17 -> Not recommended for all packages. Discuss with the lead before trying out this variant]. 
 
**Guidelines:** 
* All Java versions mentioned by community should be tested
* If community does not mention any specific version of Java then use Java 11. Use Java 8 if Java 11 does not work.
